I remember when we were doing the the
facilitation there would always be
somebody who
would be passive aggressive when we
started we were doing these 24 person
things like live in San Francisco and
there is always somebody who somehow or
another felt like they were being
oppressed by the situation as if they
couldn't leave and they would start
being really passive aggressive and our
um rule of thumb was when we'd say it at
the beginning once we figured it out we
say like if we see someone being passive
aggressive we're going to ask you to be
just outright aggressive and like just
yell and get mad at us and tell us like
tell us your boundaries or whatever it
was and that was our rule of thumb
because it was such a hard thing to to
like sort out and one of the reasons we
found out it was such a hard thing is
because a lot of times people who are
being passive aggressive don't know
they're being passive aggressive so a
great example of passive aggression is
guilt right like guilting somebody is
such a passive aggression
thing like you want them to change
you're trying to get them to change
you're using an emotion to to to get
them change it's an aggressive act but
you get to play the victim while you're
guilting right you're like oh poor me
and it's such a hard thing and now
granted there are some people and I
remember watching this film where all
these moms it was like a documentary
sort of thing all these moms were
talking around and bragging how good of
guilt Trippers they were they're like
I'm the best guilt Tripper like this is
how I do it this is the tone I know and
that's what I did I was like [__]
gross I was like wait they know they're
doing this they're doing this and they
know like and the truth is that
sometimes they know they're not but
sometimes they don't it's like sometimes
very hard for people to see that they're
being passive aggressive because their
identity is so entrenched and I'm the
one that's oppressed or I'm the victim
that they can't see that
they're but the truth about us as people
is that nobody likes to be told what to
do we all resist it's just how openly we
resist right and we know this because
like the voice in the head if you have a
critical voice in the head and the
critical voice in the head is like you
should do up up up up and they it gets
really shitty at you notice the reaction
is usually some form of passive
aggressive because you haven't done
everything the voice in the head has
told you to do you're like yeah [__] off
I'm not doing that or yeah you're right
I should do that but really [__] off I'm
not doing that and so that's what
happens when somebody feels oppressed
they're going to move into passive
aggression if they don't feel safe
enough to be completely aggressive and
just say no I'm not doing that or Draw
the boundary the way to think about
passive aggression so it's like easy to
see it's like if somebody's doing
something subconsciously or not
subconsciously
to change
you in a passive way that's passive
aggression right so it's being mean
while pretending to be nice it is guilt
tripping it is
um uh nagging is a form of passive
aggression it's it's anything where the
person feels like they don't have
control but they're still exerting
control and when you see that it's okay
to draw the same boundary that you would
if somebody's being yelling at you or
being completely aggressive which is hey
I'm not going to do that and I remember
with my parents
my poor
parents some point I called them up and
I was like they were just constantly
criticizing me it was a form of passive
aggression and I said hey I love you I
like coming home but every time I come
home you criticize me
and I don't why I wouldn't do that I
wouldn't do that with anybody else in
the world nobody else in the world would
I be like sign me up to go over to their
house and be criticized for [__] 30
minutes or two hours or for a half a day
I'm just not doing it so I love you I
want to come over to your house but I'm
I'm not g to do that until you can agree
to stop criticizing me when I come
over they didn't call me for like 18
months I think it was like 18 months
there was like silence and then they
were like okay we miss you enough I
guess they didn't say it that way but
they were like okay and then like the
criticism pretty much stopped in the
family and so it's the same thing as if
like I came home my dad yelled at me all
the time i' would say hey i' love to see
you but it's not okay for you to yell at
me which I did at a different time in my
relationship with my dad so it's drawing
that boundary and if you are the one
that realizes you're being passive
aggressive like you have resentment then
the thing to do is to move that anger to
like let the anger go to express it not
at the person not an abusive way but to
just fully Express that anger and then
draw the boundary that you need to draw
instead of feeling like you can't draw
the boundary and you can't move the
anger which is that lack of empowerment
that lack of sovereignty that L lack of
agency is the thing that makes somebody
passive aggressive they don't feel like
they can actually get what they want and
so they have to do it in a backhanded
way
[Music]